Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language, which comprises a set of instructions used to produce various kinds of output. They implement specific algorithms.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (Java), a compiler (javac), an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (Javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A. Integrated Development Environment. It is a software application that provides comprehensive facilities to computer programmers for software development.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Intillej, Eclipse, NetBeans, BlueJ.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. IDE (Intellij) -> Source Code -> Java Compile Byte Codes (.class)-> JVM ->Operating System

what is class?
A.A class is a user defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created

What is object?
A. An entity that has state and behavior

What is the entry point of an application?
A. Main-Class: classname public static void main(String[] args).

Why main is static?
A. because keyword static allows main to be called without creating an object of the class in which the main method is defined.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.Path is used by the operating system to find the executables and Classpath is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.Interface is absolutely abstract and cannot be instantiated; A Java abstract class also cannot be instantiated, but can be invoked if a main() exists.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No. Instantiate one of their subclasses/implementers.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. Object-oriented programming is a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects", which can contain data, in the form of fields, and code, in the form of procedures.
Abstraction- process of hiding the implementation details from the user.
Encapsulation-  mechanism of wrapping the data (variables) and code acting on the data (methods) together as a single unit.
Inheritance- mechanism wherein a new class is derived from an existing class.
Polymorphsism- the ability of an object to take on many forms.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. organizes Java classes into namespaces, providing a unique namespace for each type it contains. java.lang.*

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. Application programming interface.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No. To avoid ambiguity error.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Its a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their argument lists are different. During compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. Events that occur during the execution of programs that disrupt the normal flow of instructions. Use try, catch, and throw.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. It is used for share the same variable or method of a given class.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.  To define an entity that can only be assigned once.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A. block of code similar to a method that's called when an instance of an object is created.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. Reference variable in Java that refers to the current object

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. reference variable that is used to refer parent class objects. Variables, Methods, Constructors.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. No.

What version of java are you using?
A. Java SE 8

What is JAR stand for ?
A. Java ARchive

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. Java Virtual Machine, the JVM actually runs Java bytecode while  Java Developer Kit, the JDK is what you need to compile Java source code.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JRE is the environment within which the virtual machine runs. JRE is the container, JVM is the content. Java Runtime Environment contains JVM

What is compile time and run time?
A.Compile time is source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program and run time is when an application is running

What is heap?
A.Java objects are in an area, which is called the heap. It is created when the program is run, and its size may decrease or increase as your program runs

How java manage it's memory?
A. By using the Java Virtual Machine which also allocates memory from the OS, managing Java allocation including heap compaction and removal of garbage objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable which means it cannot be changed. StringBuffer and StringBuilder helps create mutable strings.

What is Singleton class?
A. a class that can have only one object (an instance of the class) at a time.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream and Deserialization is a reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. When using serialization.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Do while loop is used to execute a block of statements continuously until the given condition is true and while loop loops through a block of code as long as a specified condition is true

What is Enum?
A. special Java type used to define collections of constants

What is Iterator?
A.Iterators allow the caller to remove elements from the underlying collection during the iteration with well-defined semantics

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.because String objects are cached in String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.a serial collector is a default copying collector which uses only one GC thread for the GC operation, while a parallel collector uses multiple GC threads for the GC operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A. Just in time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected. During the garbage collection objects that are no longer used are cleared, thus making space for new objects

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. It is an automatic process.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stack is used for static memory allocation and Heap for dynamic memory allocation.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime. It allows Java developers to examine what is in a program

what is multithreading in java?
A. is to provide simultaneous execution of two or more parts of a program to maximum utilize the CPU time

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.only one thread can access the resource at a given point in time.

What is Framework?
A.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









